__What is Zombieland?__

Zombieland is a working title for a game, a little MMO about the struggle for
survival of humans against zombies.



__Where can I find the latest version of Zombieland?__

There are no released versions yet.  Just build from the latest commit, since
new features and bugfixes happen daily.



__On which platforms does Zombieland run?__

Zombieland is written in portable C and uses SDL2, SDL2_image and SDL2_ttf for
multimedia, so that part is fairly portable.
Networking code uses the Posix API, so consult the docs of your platform about
that.
The configure and build toolchain is autotools, but building is easy enough that
you can do it yourself.



__How can I build Zombieland?__

If you have the dependencies installed (including the autotools), just do the
usual from the directory of the repository:

 $ autoreconf -fi && ./configure && make



__I don't have the autotools...__

You are truly the lazy type!  Then these commands will probably suffice:

 $ cc -o zombieland client.c zombieland.c -lSDL2 -lSDL2_image -lSDL2_ttf
 $ cc -o zombielandd server.c zombieland.c malloc.c -lSDL2 -lSDL2_image -lSDL2_ttf



__How can I play Zombieland?__

Start the server (zombielandd) on some computer, then start the client
(zombieland) with two arguments: the address of the server and any username you
like.

Move around with the arrows, fire with F, stab with R to hit enemies nearby with
the knife, interact with objects (reading signs and so on) with Space and close
the game with Esc.  Any number of players can shoot at each other and at the
zombies until they die.



__Can I test Zombieland locally?__

Yes.  After building, start first the server (zombielandd), then the client
(zombieland) on another terminal, the latter with 127.0.0.1 and any username as
arguments.  You can even run multiple clients on the same system.



__What is Zombieland capable to do?__

I tested Zombieland on a LAN and I confirmed that multiple players can move in
the same 2D map and fight.



__Does Zombieland work across architectures?__

Not yet probably: endianness conversions are still not applied consistently.  I
will fix this soon enough.



__Who made the assets?__

I made the maps using a tileset taken by https://opengameart.org:

"Zelda-like tilesets and sprites" by ArMM1998 licensed CC0 1.0 Universal:
https://opengameart.org/content/zelda-like-tilesets-and-sprites

The player sprite (character.png) and zombie sprite (NPC_test.png) come from
that same set.

The spark effect in effects.png comes from:

"5x special effects - 2D" by rubberduck licensed CC0 1.0 Universal:
https://opengameart.org/content/5x-special-effects-2d

The fonts are

"Boxy Bold - TrueType Font" by Clint Bellanger (http://clintbellanger.net),
cemkalyoncu, william.thompsonj and usr_share licensed CC0 1.0 Universal:
https://opengameart.org/content/boxy-bold-truetype-font

"Digital Jots 5x5 pixel font (with katakana)" by jdm0079 licensed CC0 1.0
Universal:
https://opengameart.org/content/digital-jots-5x5-pixel-font-with-katakana

All these assets are not final, I will probably make my own along the way, but
they show that the engine works.



__Why can't I shut down the server with Ctrl-C?__

I'm not sure, but probably reading sockets non-blockingly changes the default
handling of SIGINT.  I will look into it further.



__Does Zombieland contain any line of code written by AI?__

No!  This is a game about zombies, not written by zombies.



__Can I donate something to the author?__

Yes, I have Patreon (https://www.patreon.com/c/andreamonaco) and Liberapay
(https://liberapay.com/andreamonaco).  Thanks for your support.
